Popular development environments
      Embarcadero Delphi is an integrated development environment (IDE) for console, desktop graphical, web, and mobile applications. Delphi's compilers use their own Object Pascal dialect of Pascal and generate native code for 32- and 64-bit Windows operating systems, as well as 32-bit Mac OS X, iOS and Android. As of late 2011 support for the Linux operating system was planned by Embarcadero. Delphi was originally developed by Borland as a rapid application development tool for Windows, and as the successor of Borland Pascal. Delphi and its C++ counterpart, C++Builder, shared many core components, notably the IDE and VCL, but remained separate until the release of RAD Studio 2007. RAD Studio is a shared host for Delphi, C++Builder, and others.In 2006, Borland’s developer tools section were transferred to a wholly owned subsidiary known as CodeGear, which was sold to Embarcadero Technologies in 2008.
      Eclipse is the free and open-source editor upon which many development frameworks are based. It's one of the granddaddies in its field and comes highly recommended by many a professional developer. Eclipse began as a Java development environment and has greatly expanded through a system of lightweight plugins.
      NetBeans is neck-and-neck with Eclipse as the most-recommended IDE in this category. It's free and open-source, supports tons of languages with more plugins coming all the time, and is incredibly simple to install and use, even for a beginner.
      Aptana is a popular choice for web app development. Aptana Studio 2 can be used as a stand-alone IDE or can be plugged into Eclipse. Aptana comes with Firebug support built-in, and its developer community seems to release plugins for other languages as needed.
      Ruby is a dynamic, open source programming language with a focus on simplicity and productivity. It has an elegant syntax that is natural to read and easy to write.
      Geany bills itself as a "small and fast" IDE, but it is by no means a lightweight. Its list of supported languages is about a block long; it's highly customizable; and it features a robust set of plugins which is open for hacking.
